---
sidebar_position: 1
id: vm-preface
--- 

# Preface

If you're reading this, you probably have a MacBook with an M1, M2, M3, or any M-series chip and want to run MultiSim on it. Unfortunately, MultiSim isn't available for macOS, and running it on an Apple Silicon MacBook isn't as simple as installing it on a Windows PC. This guide will walk you through the process of setting up a virtual machine on your MacBook to run Windows and install MultiSim. You can skip this section and go straight to the [guide](prerequisites) if you're already familiar with the situation.

## What's the issue?

The newer MacBooks, released in 2020 and later, use Apple's own M-series Apple Silicon chips, which are based on the ARM architecture. These processors are different from the Intel processors used in older MacBooks, which are based on the x86 architecture. MultiSim is a Windows application that is designed to run on x86 processors, and it is not compatible with ARM processors like the ones used in Apple Silicon MacBooks.

## How do we solve this problem?

The solution to run MultiSim on an Apple Silicon MacBook is to use a virtual machine. A virtual machine is a software that emulates a computer system. This allows you to run any operating system of any architecture on your MacBook, provided that your MacBook is powerful enough to handle it. In this case, we will be using a virtual machine to run the x86 version of Windows on your Apple Silicon MacBook so that you can install and run MultiSim.
