---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Setting Up Boot Camp

These instructions are taken from Apple directly, modified only slightly. You can find the original Apple Support page [here](https://support.apple.com/en-us/102622).

## 1. Check your Secure Boot setting

If you're using a [Mac with the Apple T2 Security Chip](https://support.apple.com/en-us/103265), the default Secure Boot setting is Full Security. If you changed it to No Security, [change it back to Full Security](https://support.apple.com/en-us/102522) before installing Windows. After installing Windows, you can use any Secure Boot setting without affecting your ability to start up from Windows.

## 2. Use Boot Camp Assistant to create a Windows partition

Use Boot Camp Assistant to create a Windows partition
Open Boot Camp Assistant, which is in the Utilities folder of your Applications folder. Follow the onscreen instructions.

- If you're asked to insert a USB drive, plug your USB flash drive into your Mac. Boot Camp Assistant will use it to create a bootable USB drive for Windows installation.
- When Boot Camp Assistant asks you to set the size of the Windows partition, remember the minimum storage-space requirements in the previous section. Set a partition size that meets your needs, because you can't change its size later.

:::important
Your Mac can have as little as 64GB of free storage space, but at least 128GB of free storage space provides the best experience. Automatic Windows updates require that much space or more.

If you have an iMac Pro or Mac Pro with 128GB of memory (RAM) or more, your startup disk needs at least as much free storage space as your Mac has memory.
:::

## 3. Format the Windows (BOOTCAMP) partition

When Boot Camp Assistant finishes, your Mac restarts to the Windows installer. If the installer asks where to install Windows, select the BOOTCAMP partition and click Format. In most cases, the installer selects and formats the BOOTCAMP partition automatically.

## 4. Install Windows

Unplug any external devices that aren't necessary during installation. Then click Next and follow the onscreen instructions to begin installing Windows.

## 5. Use the Boot Camp installer in Windows

After Windows installation completes, your Mac starts up in Windows and opens a "Welcome to the Boot Camp installer" window. Follow the onscreen instructions to install Boot Camp and Windows support software (drivers). You will be asked to restart when done.

- If the Boot Camp installer never opens, [open the Boot Camp installer manually](https://support.apple.com/en-us/102320) and use it to complete Boot Camp installation.
- If you have an external display connected to a [Thunderbolt 3 port](https://support.apple.com/en-us/109523) on your Mac, the display will be blank (black, gray, or blue) for up to 2 minutes during installation.

## 6. Switch between Windows and macOS

Restart, then press and hold the Option (or Alt) ⌥ key during startup to [switch between Windows and macOS](https://support.apple.com/en-us/102450).
