---
sidebar_position: 1
--- 

# Preface

If you're reading this, you probably have a MacBook with an M1, M2, M3, or any M-series chip and want to run MultiSim on it. Unfortunately, MultiSim isn't available for macOS, and running it on an Apple Silicon MacBook isn't as simple as installing it on a Windows PC. This guide will walk you through the process of setting up a virtual machine on your MacBook to run Windows and install MultiSim. You can skip this section and go straight to the [guide](prerequisites) if you're already familiar with the situation.

## Why So Complicated?

The newer MacBooks, released in 2020 and later, use Apple's own M-series Apple Silicon chips, which are based on the ARM architecture. This means that the processor in these MacBooks is different from the Intel processors used in older MacBooks. The software that runs on these MacBooks must be compatible with the ARM architecture to run natively on these devices. To rub salt in the wound, MultiSim isn't even available for macOS, which is, at the moment, the only operating system that can run natively on Apple Silicon MacBooks easily.

## So What's the Solution?

The solution to run MultiSim on an Apple Silicon MacBook is to use a virtual machine. A virtual machine is a software that emulates a computer system. This allows you to run an operating system within another operating system. In this case, we will be using a virtual machine to run Windows 10 on an Apple Silicon MacBook to run MultiSim. If you prefer Windows 11, you can use that instead and still follow this guide, as the steps should be relatively the same.
