---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Prerequisites

## 1. Checking Boot Camp Compatibility

Please double-check that your MacBook is compatible with Boot Camp. You can do this by following these steps:

1. Click on the Apple logo in the top left corner of your screen.
2. Select "About This Mac."
3. Look at the "Processor" field. If it says Apple M-whatever, you will need to use a virtual machine to install MultiSim. If it says Intel, you can use Boot Camp.

If you have an Intel-based MacBook, you can proceed to the next section. If you have an Apple Silicon MacBook, you will need to use a virtual machine to install MultiSim. You can find the guide for that [here](apple-silicon).

## 2. Getting a Copy of Windows

The easiest way to get a copy of Windows is by using a tool called CrystalFetch. CrystalFetch is a tool that can download Windows 10 or Windows 11 directly from Microsoft's servers. To download CrystalFetch, we'll use a tool called Homebrew. Homebrew is a package manager for macOS that allows you to install software and apps easily.

### 2.1. Installing Homebrew

1. Press `Command + Space` to open Spotlight Search
2. Type `Terminal` and press `Enter`
3. Copy and paste the following command into the terminal and press `Enter`:

    ```sh
    /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
    ```

4. Follow the instructions in the terminal to complete the installation.
   1. Enter your password when prompted
   2. Press `Enter` to confirm the installation location
   3. Wait for the installation to complete

### 2.2. Installing CrystalFetch

1. Close the Terminal window and open a new one.

    :::tip
    To open a Terminal window, press `Command + Space` to open up Spotlight Search, type `Terminal`, and press `Enter`.
    :::

2. Run `brew --version` to verify that Homebrew is installed. If you see a version number, Homebrew is installed correctly and you can proceed. If you see an error message, please refer to the [Installing Homebrew](#11-installing-homebrew) section.
3. Copy and paste the following command into the terminal and press `Enter`:

    ```sh
    brew install crystalfetch
    ```

4. Wait for the installation to complete.